In this video we'll introduce some of the concepts required to convert a physical machine to a VM.
And there's a few different software options out there that can do this for you.
I'll walk you through those in just a moment.
They all work somewhat similarly though.
So let's say we have this physical server.
This is a physical server with let's say Windows installed on it and it's got all of this physical hardware
like C-p use a network adapters and memory and data.
And my Windows operating system has drivers for things like the network adapters.
Right.
It knows what kind of C-p use are these HMD or Intel seepages that's got a scuzzy controller to connect
to these physical disks.
And so there's stuff going on inside the operating system.
That is aware of the actual physical hardware.
So when we take this physical server and we use one of our tools to convert it to a virtual machine
the first step that happens is the virtual machine is created.
We're going to have a virtual machine present on one of our hypervisor is with the appropriate CPQ network
memory and storage specifications.
And it might not match up with exactly what we have in the physical server.
As a matter of fact my VM may actually run better and faster if I give it fewer C.P. use when we create
a virtual machine.
Our goal is always to right size that virtual machine.
It's never just take what the physical server had and duplicate it.
Our goal is always the right size it to give the virtual machine the correct resources that it needs
to do its job and nothing extra and we want our AVMA to be at about 60 70 percent utilization for CPQ
and the same for memory.
We don't want him sitting there at 10 percent Seip utilization with four Scipio's that's not good.
We're also going to need a neck and a network interface card on the virtual machine.
And this is going to be a hardware change for the guest operating system.
So what we're going to now have is probably a network interface card that was specifically designed
to run on a virtual machine.
A good example of this is the VM where VM X net three virtual Nic the beautiful thing about this though
is that now the virtual machine has no relationship with the actual physical hardware so we get mobility.
But the other benefit that people don't think about so often is the fact that as I virtualise all of
my windows instances and all of my Linux instances they're going to have a similar set of virtual hardware.
It's going to really allow me to standardize my operating system configuration
so what we place our physical hardware with virtual hardware and we'll replace our hard disk with a
virtual disk.
This is a file that could be on local storage of the host.
It could be on a Fiber Channel or ice Gussie's storage array could be on an NFL server.
Doesn't really matter where what matters is that we create this virtual disk and that we migrate all
of the data from the source virtual machine to that virtual desk and when the VM powers on it's got
its new hardware it's got its new disk and it should just work.
So that's how we actually convert a physical server to a virtual machine.
And depending on which hypervisor you're using VM Where has the center converter.
Microsoft has the VM converter and VM has a product called disk to HD and now VM is a third party to
this process.
But they offer a conversion utility that you can use for Hyper-V and the VM product line is really excellent
if you're considering virtualizing.
It's definitely worth a look.
They provide some excellent tools.
So now we can start using these solutions to take our existing physical servers convert them to CMS
and run them on our hypervisor.